DBL Project Group 34:

The application is available at: https://aerelion.github.io/DBL-Project/
The source code can also be found at: https://github.com/Aerelion/DBL-Project

Our website is an application that can be used to visualise dynamic networks. The website has two pages: a "home" page and a "visualise" page. On the home page, there is some basic information about the website, how to use it, and about the team that created it. The visualise page is where you can uipload a dataset, and then visualise it. We offer two distinct visualisations: a force directed node-link diagram and an adjacency matrix visualisation. Unfortunately, at the moment, only the given Enron dataset is compatible with the two visualisations.

On the visualise page, the is a button at the top left of the screen, which can be used to open a menu. From there, it is possible to upload a dataset, select where the visualisations will be shown on screen, select the animation step (more on this in the slider section), and visualise an ulpoaded dataset.
A dataset can be uploaded using the file input mechanism. Only ".csv" files can be uploaded. A name can be given to the uploaded dataset, otherwise the name of the dataset will be "null". After the dataset is uploaded successfully, a message indicating this will pop up. A refresh is required after the dataset is uploaded for the newly uploaded dataset to show in the dataset column. Any of the uploaded datasets can be visualised by clicking the button labeled "visualise". Upon clicking the button, two visualisations will appear, a node-link diagram and an adjacency matrix.

The node-link diagram is a visualisation that maps the dataset nodes to circles, and the edges to lines between the circles. Depending on the weight of the edges, the lines in the diagram will vary in size. The higher the weight of the edge is, the more noticeable the corresponding line will be. In addition, specifically for the Enron dataset, the edges will have a red-green hue (disclaimer: a multiple selection needs to be active for the colours to show in the node-link diagram, more on that later), which represents the sentiment of the emails. In this case, green represents a positive sentiment value, and red represents a negative sentiment value. The adjacency matrix maps the dataset nodes to text that is situated on rows and columns, and the edges to sqares inside a grid. For example, if there is a square on a row labeled A and a column labeled B, this means that there is a directed edge from A to B in the network. Colour coding is very similar to the node-link diagram, and edge weights are also handled very similarly.

Nodes are selectable in both visualisations, and any selected node will be highlighted. For the node-link diagram, it is possible to select and drag nodes around by clicking on them. Since this visualisation is force directed, all nodes will move and try to get to an equilibrium state. Also, selecting a node will diplay a pop-up with more information about it, and all of the nodes that are adjacent to the selected node will be coloured green and have some details displayed as well. For the adjacency matrix, there are multiple intuitive ways to highlight the nodes in the adjacency matrix. Clicking on a node will highlight the clicked node, and clicking on an edge will toggle the highlight between the row and the column nodes. Holding the "Ctrl" key while clicking the nodes allows the user to highlight multiple nodes at the same time, and holding the "Shift" key enables the user to highlight the nodes by just hovering over them. "Ctrl" and "Shift" can be used at the same time while dragging the mouse cursor on top of the nodes or edges to make a very quick multiple node selection. Moreover, it is also possible to zoom and drag the visualisation which makes it easier to make selections. Lastly, hovering on an edge will show two lines corresponding to the row and column that the edge is situated on.

The adjacency matrix is linked with the node-link diagram, which means that any nodes highlighted in one of the two visualisations will also be highlighted in the other one. We believe that having the two visualisations linked makes highlighting nodes a lot more meaningful, since in this way, insight can be gained from both visualisations at the same time. There is also a button at the bottom right of the screen that can be used to reset the selection.

A slider is visible at the bottom of the screen after the given dataset is visualised. The slider's purpose is to be used on a dataset that has time dependent elements. The given Enron dataset has time dependent elements, because it contains data about emails, including the send date of each of them. As such, after visualising the Enron dataset, it is possible to use the slider to hide particular network elements. For example, if the slider cursor is moved so that the date displayed under the slider is "June 1, 2000", then the visualisations will be automatically re-rendered, and only emails up to and including the first of June 2000 will be visualised. There is also a button below the slider, which upon being clicked, will automatically increment the slider date once every few seconds. Pressing the button again will pause the slider, and the amount of days that will be incremented each step can be set from the menu.
